Welcome to the section 12 challenge solution I'm in the section 12 workspace and the challenge solution
project.
And before I forget we're going to write those two functions but right here on line 1 0 8.
Don't forget to free up the storage.
OK I was going to get into the functions and I knew it was probably going to forget to mention this
but remember that function that we're going to write this function apply all allocate storage from the
heap when we're finished with it we need to release it.
So we want to say delete square brackets results.
All right.
Perfect.
Now let's go right those functions.
First thing we'll do is we'll write the print function the print function is really easy to understand
and here it is right here.
OK.
So what does print expect and here you can see a call to print.
Let me scroll up just a little bit.
You can see it right there.
Here you can see it called to print right here on line 97.
You can see what's happening I'm calling print and I'm passing in an array right which is the address
of an integer in this case and that just happens to be the first integer in this array right here.
And then passing in array one size which is a constant defined to 5.
Now this function expects a constant pointer pointing to a constant so I can't change the pointer and
I can't change what it's pointing to in this case.
So any mistakes I make in here I want caught because I have no plans of changing anything here I'm not
modifying the pointer or what it points to and I'm passing in the size.
So what am I doing here.
Just simply displaying that square bracket and then I'm just using a real simple for loop.
There is my that's my loop very well I'm starting at 0 and I'm going again less than size.
Size in this case is five.
So I'm going 0 1 2 3 4 and I stop and that's exactly how that array is indexed at each iteration.
I'm just displaying A-R are Sabai now right here.
I'm using pointer subscript notation.
I could very easily have used pointer offset notation right which becomes a r r Plus II and dereference
that guy exactly the same.
They both mean exactly the same.
So in either one you could use.
OK so at this point I'm looping through there when I hit five I stop and I've displayed all those values
here.
So this will display one two three four five and a square bracket and then a new line at the end and
that will be the output you see from here.
OK so hopefully you've got this function.
It's a pretty simple function to write.
Most likely if you had any issues with this it was probably right in here maybe you did and I'd less
than or equal to size when you had an off by one error and maybe you printed some garbage.
That's a very common error.
If you use the debugger that probably helped you out.
So let me clear that.
Now let's go in right.
The main function here the Apply all function.
Now in this case this is how I've defined this function we know it.
It returns a pointer to an integer right cause it needs to return the address of that newly allocated
space on the heap.
It expects array 1 which is a pointer to an integer and the size of that array and array 2 which is
a pointer to the other array and the size of that array.
So that's what we're passing into this function.
I've declared everything is conc all these pointers that way.
I'm not messing with pointers and I'm not messing with what they're pointing to.
I've got no business changing those two arrays that are coming in I'm just building a third array which
I'm returning.
So here is the third array.
It's called new array.
Right now it's just a null pointer and it's a pointer to an integer an address of that first integer
in that new array that I want to create.
And this is me creating it right here.
New Int.
And this is going to be 15 in this example because I'm passing in a 5 and a 3 right here some allocating
15 integers.
On the heap right now that's been allocated that all contains garbage right now and they're indexed
from 0 to 14.
OK.
Now I want to loop through those arrays that were passed into me so that I can start doing some of these
calculations.
So let's do that right now.
First of all I've got this variable called position and position starts at 0 and it's going to go from
0 to 14.
That's what I'm going to use to index into my new array here.
But I've got those other two arrays.
I've got A-R are 1 which was 1 2 3 4 and 5.
In this example and I've got a R2 which was 10 20 and 30.
So this is where we're at.
And obviously we have the sizes that were passed and the five or the three as well.
So what do I want to do.
Well I want to loop through this array as the outer loop because I want this to loop slow.
This is the one on one of the fast because I want to stay at 10 and then go 1 2 3 4 5.
They don't want to go to the 20 and go 1 2 3 4 5 and so forth right.
So my looping variable is going to go from zero to size to which is 0 1 and 2.
Because that size 2 is 3.
And I want to increment by one and then I've got an inner loop.
So I've got a nested loop here where my looping variable is J and it's going to go less than size 1.
So we're dealing with five here and I'm incrementing that by one or two each time.
So look what's happening in the body of the inner loop.
I'm setting the value and again I'm using right here I'm using pointer subscript notation.
I'm setting the value at new array position right position right now.
Is zero.
We set it right up here some setting the value at that new array position to be a r r subject.
Right at the beginning this will be zero times or so.
So I which is also 0.
So that's these two guys right 10 and 1.
So in the SO when we first go through here the second a r r 2 is the one that's looping slower.
Right.
So this guy's going to go one two three four five and this guy's going to go 10 10 10 10 10.
He's not changing.
Right.
So what we're doing is we're multiplying 10 or 10 times one and putting it here.
Right then we're incrementing positions and our position is one and then we're multiplying ten times
two.
We are 20 and we're going all the way down to 50 and along the way we're incrementing that position
variable.
This is the position variable right here.
Now we're done with the inner loop.
So we go back out to the outer loop and now instead of a 10 here we're going to grab the 20 right.
So this guy now refers to 20.
So we're going to do the same thing we're going to go one two three four five and then 20 20 20 20 and
20 and we're multiplying all of these storing the product right in here so we're going to get 20 40
60 80 100 and along the way.
Five six seven eight and nine were incrementing that position variable k then obviously on the last
iteration of the loop we're dealing with 1 2 3 4 and 5 and we're multiplying all of these guys by 30
right here.
So what we're doing here and it and of course this position is being bumped up each time.
So that's what's pointing into the new array.
Right.
So now here we've got what three.
So we got 30 60 90 120 and I ran out of space but there's a 150 there dn at that point that array now
has been allocated on the heap and all those values have been stored into the array.
I clear this now and then all I'm doing here is returning to Array.
So it's returning the address of that first element in the array OK.
Now I'm back here now in my main and I just returned that address right here.
So this point to results is pointing to that array that I just erase that big array of 15 integers from
0 to 14 on the heap.
It's got no name and the only way I get to it is through this results POINAR OK.
Simple as that then I'm using a constant expression here to do to basically calculate this constant
result size which in this case is going to be 15.
And I'm just passing results in 15 to the print function and it's going to print all those values that
we calculate.
So let's give this guy a run
and there's the run you could see array one is 1 2 3 4 5 array 2 is 10 20 30 and then the resulting
array is 15 elements big and it's a function of applying that multiplication of one array to another
array and putting the product in the third array.
OK.
Simple as that.
The debugger might have helped you if you used it if not it's just really a matter of the only tricky
part here is this piece of code right here the nested loop.
And this is just one way to do this you could have done this a lot of other different ways but this
is a really simple way to do it because you keep that position you just keep bumping it up and it's
going to go from zero to 14 and it's as simple as that.
All right so I hope you guys were able to solve the challenge if you did it a different way and you
think it's more efficient or pretty clever.
Let us all know that the simpler.